
                                     How to easily encrypt/decrypt a file in Linux with gpg

From the command line

   Let's say you have a file, ~/Documents/important.docx, that you want to password protect. Using gpg, you would do the
   following.

    1. Open a terminal window.
    2. Change to the ~/Documents directory with the command cd ~/Documents.
    3. Encrypt the file with the command gpg -c important.docx.
    4. Enter a unique password for the file and hit Enter.
    5. Verify the newly typed password by typing it again and hitting Enter.

   You should now see the file important.docx.gpg in the ~/Documents folder. To decrypt that file, do the following.

    1. Open a terminal window.
    2. Change to the ~/Documents directory with the command cd ~/Documents.
    3. Decrypt the file with the command gpg -d important.docx.gpg.
    4. When prompted, enter the decryption password you created when encrypting the file.

   You could send that file to a recipient and, as long as they have gpg installed, they can decrypt the file with the
   password you used for encryption. If they are a Windows user, they can always install Gpg4win.

The GUI way

   If you happen to be a GNOME 3 user (or any Linux desktop that makes use of either Nautilus or GNOME Files), you can add a
   contextual menu entry to the file manager for encryption. Here's how (I'll demonstrate on Ubuntu GNOME 16.04).

    1. Open a terminal window.
    2. Issue the command sudo apt-get install seahorse-nautilus.
    3. Type your sudo password and hit Enter.
    4. If prompted, type y and hit Enter.
    5. Allow the installation to complete.

   Open the file manager and navigate to the ~/Documents directory. Right-click the important.docx file and then click the
   Encrypt... entry (Figure A). You will be prompted to enter and then verify an encryption password. Once you've verified the
   password, the important.docx.gpg file will appear in ~/Documents.


        Encrypting a file within Nautilus.

   The decryption process is the same.

    1. Open the file manager.
    2. Navigate to the encrypted file.
    3. Right-click the encrypted file.
    4. Click Open with Decrypt File.
    5. When prompted, give the new file a name and click Enter.
    6. When prompted, enter the decryption password and click Enter.

   The encrypted file will now be decrypted and ready to use.

